---
layout: page
categories : usage
---


## Creating Your Layout

Jekyll-bootstrap uses [twitter bootstrap](http://twitter.github.com/bootstrap) to provide the layout structure.
This is because I am not a designer. (designers please contribute themes to Jekyll-bootstrap!)

To get up and running the fastest you might just take a peak at the twitter bootstrap design elements
and setup a quick template that you are happy with.


### Static Assets

The `assets` folder follows a logical structure:
`css` folder contain css, `javascripts` folder contain javascript files etc.
You can link to these static assets following the logical directory path.

### Create a Base Template

The base template in Jekyll-bootstrap is at: `/_layouts/default.html`
You can see how the global layout is defined and how assets are linked to.

### Create a Post Template

The post template in Jekyll-bootstrap is at:  `/_layouts/post.html`
This template is a sub-template that all posts refer to. You can see the post template defines
the default template its parent layout. 


## Creating Your Content

### Create a Post
Create a file with valid date and title in the filename and place it into the `_posts` folder.
Jekyll-bootstrap provides many post files for you to copy from to better understand the formatting requirements.

### Create a Page

Create a file anywhere in the root directory, for example `/about.md` and remember to provide
valid YAML Front Matter so Jekyll recognizes the file as a page.

Jekyll-bootstrap provides many page examples for reference. 
You can study the source and customize it for your own needs.

<ul>
{% assign pages_list = site.pages %}
{% assign group = "example-page" %}
{% include helpers/pages_list.html %}
</ul>

## Updating Your Website

Jekyll is "aware" of when files change.
To add a new post you simply create the file and add it to the `_posts` directory as normal.
Once you are done you commit that post file to your repository on GitHub.

If you are deploying to GitHub pages you are done! GitHub will run Jekyll as a post-commit hook
and generate your website with your new post included.

Updating templates and other files will work in the exact same manner, just remember to commit and push to your repository.

GitHub should send you an email as to the success or failure of the website generation.

## Doing More Stuff!

The Jekyll-bootstrap helpers are comprehensively documented so please take a look at the source
and example content all throughout Jekyll-bootstrap. 

The idea here is to customize the provided code to fit your own specific needs.

## Feedback

Lastly please use the GitHub issue tracking system <https://github.com/plusjade/jekyll-bootstrap/issues>
to submit bugs, feature-requests, or to contribute to Jekyll-bootstrap.

Thank you!
